Despite how ferocious adult tricertops beetles are towards any animal that competes with their larvae, they way they act otherwise is incredible. They're about as calm and friendly of an arthropod you can keep! And not only that, but they're extremely strong and hardy, so human interaction is unlikely to pose harm to them.

If you see the beetle above ground and walking around, it's probably a safe time to pick them up. In the case of my beetle, Gerbie, they straight up scratch on the sides of the container when they want to be picked up or want to walk around. When doing so, pick them up like you would a frog, by the sides. They will probably wriggle around and try to squeeze their way out because being held this way isn't something they enjoy, but it won't hurt them. After that, you can set them wherever you plan to play with them. I usually let my beetle Gerbie crawl on me while I'm laying down, she tends to gravitate towards my hands and stomach. Due to the way they like to burrow and hide in the wild, don't be surprised if the beetle decides to walk towards any crease or pocket in clothing and fall asleep in it. Triceratops beetles are easily the most easy insect to spot asleep, they do it quite regularly. Just make sure you know where they are at all times, don't want to lose them or squish them. I personally keep them in a small cup container when I'm not in the room and plan to return soon.

These beetles aren't particularly fast or flighty, so they won't need much room to play around in. Heck, even actual flight is rare for this species. I've seen Gerbie inflate her wings twice and I don't even think it was to fly around, just stretch out her muscles. Like anything small, you have to make sure you don't drop or lose the beetle. Always keep your eyes on them, ask me how I know. If you have to get up and leave the area for whatever reason, either put the beetle in a lidded container or back in the enclosure. They don't mind being petted at all, just avoid the face. They don't like being put on their backs or being held for long, but they'll gladly crawl on you or other surfaces until they get bored and tired. Despite the crazy looking spiky legs, it doesn't hurt at all for them to crawl on your skin.

You may notice your beetle stridulate when first being picked up or when interacting with them. This is completely normal. It's also normal for them to sometimes just sit there and do nothing and fall asleep. Did I mention just how calm these beetles are? They seem to have zero fear of humans at all. They're basically reptile-brained bugs in my experience, or a miniature dog. They can be chatty, in a cuddly mood, walk towards you demanding food, beg for attention, etc. All this could be me trying to anthropomorphize them too much, but a lot of their behavior seems too coincidental to not be due to intelligence.

While no studies have been done on triceratops beetle intelligence, in my and others' experiences, they seem to have all the traits of a species with high intelligence. They don't blindly walk around, for example. Instead, they stop and take in the entire world, similar to a jumping spider, by moving their heads in a circular motion and analyzing what's around them. If you alter the environment they're walking in, they'll pause and do the process over again. Not only that, but they seem to be smart enough to associate human hands with food or interaction. My beetle Gerbie seems to know when I'm awake and near the enclosure when they're ready to be picked up, because they'll walk towards whatever side I'm on and start crawling and scratching the side of the enclosure. I'm not sure if other triceratops beetles do this, but I know of literally no other arthropods, aside from the highly intelligent jumping spider, that exhibits this behavior.
